---
layout: post
title: Week 1, Intro to Unix lab 2016
author: Ondrej Platek
tags: Mff, School, Labs, Shell
---

## Content 
- Parse the instructions on this website and send me `run.sh` script which will print your desired **nickname**
    - Nickname requirements: Max 8 characters.
- Motivation, why Shell?
    - Automation
        - Try interactively, repeat via scripting
        - Large number of simple fast and useful commands which can are combined 
        - Can easily parse huge files. (Just try to open 1GB text file in MS Word)
    - Faster then GUI for text editing 
    - Low resources
    - CLI - command-line interface - standard interface for lot of running machines
        - web serves
        - large clusters of computers
        - robots and embedded devices e.g. washing machines, tourniquets
        - many other examples ...
    - In addition: why Linux?
        - Free, widely used, open-source
            - You can learn it and improve it
- Understand how you can pass the labs
- Using shell in lab/Rotunda
    - ``ssh YOUR_LOGIN@u-pl2[0-9].ms.mff.cuni.cz``
- Terminal in lab, Terminal for OSX, Docker for Windows, Putty, VirtualBox (see main page for links)
- Command line shortcuts ``Ctrl-a, Ctrl-e, Ctrl-w, Ctrl-k, Ctrl-Left, Ctrl-Right, Ctrl-r, Ctrl-d, Ctrl-C``
- Comments `# this is comment - it does nothing`
- `cd`, `cd -`, `cd /path/to/directory`, **todo**, `cd ..  # go to parent directory`, `cd ../.. # go two directories up`
- `man man`, search using `/`, jumping to occurrences via`n` and `N`
    - structure `man man`, `$0 --help`, synopsis `command [OPTION]... [FILE]...`
- Basic commands
    - `cp, mv, rm, touch, ln, sleep`

## Homework
1. (*1 point*) Print numbers 3300, 3301, ..., 3333 from file which has 10000 lines. Prepare the file yourself. Numbers are stored each on single line and each number is located on the row with corresponding number.
    - **Hints** - commands `seq`, `head`, `tail` and **man**
2. (*2 points*) 
    - Create directory `test` and empty files `test/1`, `test/2`, .., `test/10`. 
    - Use `vi` or other editor and edit all of the 10 files and to each file insert one of your favourite songs/articles.
    - Change the time of modification for file `test/8` so it is the latest.
    - List files in the `test` directories sorted by time. List just the directory test.
    - Merge the content of all the files in the `test` directory to one file called `all` 

## Bonus
* (2 points) Write a script which find as many commands and functions which measure time both in shell and in C.
  Present them in three columns *(function name, man section number, one line function synopsis)*
    - One point for one function
    - Find at least one C function
    - Describe how you think about the problem
* (2 points) Prepare a short presentation (in Czech) about ``tr`` command
    - Explain others how it can be used
        - Syntax and how to read the manual page 
        - Use with ``echo`` and *pipes* (Pipes will be introduced next time)
        - Prepare at least three examples how it can be used
* (2 point) Prepare a short presentation and a **blog post** with introduction with at least two detailed description how to obtain your own Linux installation
    - Include at least three options from list below:
        - ssh to Rotuanda lab
        - Use Putty to ssh to Rotunda lab
        - Install Ubuntu 14.04/Debian 8
        - VirtualBox on Windows
        - Docker on Windows or Linux
* (1 point) Find a spelling or other error on the lab webpage and submit me a fix using [Pull request (PR)](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).
    - The hard part is submitting the PR;-)
    - (+1 point) additional point if you present how to use few basic git commands from command line
