---
layout: post
title: Week 2, Intro to Unix lab 2016
author: Ondrej Platek
tags: Mff, School, Labs, Shell
---

## Content 
- Thanks for PR (pull requests)
    - Keep contributing! Not only spelling fixes but also your suggestions and interesting literature are very welcome! 
- Homework recap
    - Instructions, intentions, problems and scoring
    - parameters `man -S1 man` and `man -S 1 man`
    - Comments `# this is a comment - it does nothing`
    - Debugging `set +x, set -x` - **Try it at home! What does it do?**
    - copying out scripts from lab `scp`, using `ssh -Y`, or [winscp](http://winscp.net/eng/download.php) 
- `tr` presentation by Hlupaco
- Basic commands: `touch, echo, cp, mv, rm, mkdir, `
    - relative paths `., .., ../..`
    - links (with relative paths and pitfalls) `., ln -s`
    - important standard paths: `/bin, /var, /etc, /usr, ...`
- `cd`, `cd -`, `cd /path/to/directory`, `cd ..  # go to parent directory`, `cd ../.. # go two directories up`
- `man` and `less`. Navigation (`j`, `k`, `Ctrl+k`, `Ctrl+p`, `/`, `q`)
    - apropos and `man -k`
    - `--help` parameter
- pipes, stdin, stdout
    - redirecting file to *stdin* 
        - by `cat my_file | head -n 2`
        - by `head -n 2 < my_file`
        - **Do not confuse with using the file name as argument!**
            -  `head -n 2 my_file`
    - redirecting to file, e.g. `cat my_file.txt > copy_of_the_file.txt`
    - redirecting error output to file `ls -l not_existing_file.txt 2> error > attribute_of_file.txt`
    - swapping *stderr* and *stdout* 
        - useful e.g for pipes `ls -a not_existing_file.txt 2>&1  > attribute_of_file.txt | tee error`
        - useful for printing to stderr `echo "printing to stderr" 1>&2"`
- script arguments

{% highlight shell linenos %}
# content of script test.sh

# printing help to stderr
echo "Usage: $0 [arg1 ...]" 1>&2
echo All arguments
echo $@

for arg in $@; do
    echo $arg
done

echo First argument
echo $1
{% endhighlight %}
    
    
- **next time**
    - `chmod, chown` and `ls`
    - Intro to `vi` and `vim`

## Homework
(3 points) Imagine you have three files *text, table1, table2*. 

- The file *text* contains free text.
- The file *table1* contains sequence of characters which should be replaced **from** the file *text* on single row.
- The file *table2* contains sequence of characters which should be replaced **to** based on the file *text* and the sequence in file *table1* on single row.
- Note: Strange characters like *'\*', new line (LF), '?'* or *space* may appear in all three files.
- The result save into file *results*.

## Bonus
* (2 points) Prepare a short presentation (in Czech) about ``cut`` command
    - Explain to others how it can be used
        - Syntax and how to read the manual page 
        - Use with ``echo`` and *pipes* (Pipes will be introduced next time).
        - Prepare at least three examples how it can be used. Use standard files such as */etc/passwd*
* (2 points) *Man - time* exercise from first week 
* (Easy Vim understanding) Go through [Vimtutorl](http://linuxcommand.org/man_pages/vimtutor1.html) by running `vimtutor` from shell




