---
layout: post
title: Week 8, Intro to Unix lab 2016
author: Ondrej Platek
tags: Mff, School, Labs, Shell
---

## Content 
- **Your job is to submitt correct solutions which work both on lab machine e.g u-pl24 and solaris u-us. If they won't pass automatic test, 0 points will be rewarded!** 
    - It includes proper email subject and proper file naming
    - I will be sending back error messages
    - How to verify it on both: If you hate it, automate it. 
- Recap homework
    -  `sed -i` not standard but useful
    -  `sed -e` useful to use explicitly. Be careful of ordering of options especially `-n`
    -  sed `1~2d` is not standard. You can check http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ after searching `sed`
    - functions are very useful but not standard
    - bashism
        - `$(( 1 +2 ))`
        - ((k++))
    - `while cond ; do command ; done` - no `;` after do
    - `while read x ; do echo $x ; done` - how to detect end of file
    - escaping variables `"$i"`
    - indent in last homework
        - `printf` for `find` is not in standard 
- Recap test and Bonus from previous week
    - Solution where `"he said she said: \"unix rocks\""` can be passed as arguments
- Print lines `7-9` using sed from `seq 10000`. Measure time. What is the fastest solutions?
- 
- processes: `fg, bf, Ctrl-C, Ctrl-Z, Ctrl-Y, jobs`
    - [Bash and catching signals](http://tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/chap_12.html)


## Homework
**I am sorry for my delay I was ill.**

**The deadline will be till next week May 5th 2016, 23:59.**

Note that the scripts works on Solaris and Gentoo in MS Rotunda laboratory, so keep it that way. It will be evaluated on machine `u-pl2[0-9]` and `u-ss`.

- (1 point) Understand and modify a script [ifs.sh](/downloads/ifs.sh) so it prints a template only for users whose login is a substring of their name.
    - See one line from many which match the criteria:
        - `Uzivatel 'vyuka laborator' ma login 'vyuka' and uid (50000).`
        - Understand what is a template and what are the variables which should differ for each line
        - Note that login `vyuka` is substring from users name `vyuka laborator`.
    - **Send me** 
        - `ifs_${YOUR_NICKNAME}.sh` modified script
        - `ifs_${YOUR_NICKNAME}.output` the scripts output
- (1 point) Understand and modify a script [args.sh](/downloads/args.sh) so it prints every second word from this single command `set -- /usr/*`
    - **Send me** - both `args_${YOUR_NICKNAME}.sh` and `args_${YOUR_NICKNAME}.output`
- (1 point) Understand and modify a script [kill.sh](/downloads/kill.sh) so produces these two *desired* lines into file `kill.out`.
    - Send me only the modified script named `kill_${YOUR_NICKNAME}.sh`, but modify only the three lines marked for modification.
    - See `kill` man page before running the script.
    - Desired output stored in file `kill.out` with two lines:

{% highlight shell %}
You should run this script and press Ctrl+C to see me
Runn kill and my PID. That should be enough
{% endhighlight %}
